.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''
---

## 🐛 Bug

<!-- A clear and concise description of what the bug is. -->

### To Reproduce

Steps to reproduce the behavior:

1. Go to '...'
1. Run '....'
1. Scroll down to '....'
1. See error

<!-- If you have a code sample, error messages, stack traces, please provide it here as well -->

#### Code sample

<!-- Ideally attach a minimal code sample to reproduce the decried issue.
Minimal means having the shortest code but still preserving the bug. -->

### Expected behavior

<!-- A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen. -->

### Environment

- PyTorch Version (e.g., 1.0):
- OS (e.g., Linux):
- How you installed PyTorch (`conda`, `pip`, source):
- Build command you used (if compiling from source):
- Python version:
- CUDA/cuDNN version:
- GPU models and configuration:
- Any other relevant information:

### Additional context

<!-- Add any other context about the problem here. -->

Commit message:

add program coverage as an extra category (#558)

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
assignees: ''
---

*Note*: If you have a model or program that is not supported yet but should be, please use the program coverage template.

## 🐛 Bug

<!-- A clear and concise description of what the bug is. -->

### To Reproduce

Steps to reproduce the behavior:

1. Go to '...'
1. Run '....'
1. Scroll down to '....'
1. See error

<!-- If you have a code sample, error messages, stack traces, please provide it here as well -->

#### Code sample

<!-- Ideally attach a minimal code sample to reproduce the decried issue.
Minimal means having the shortest code but still preserving the bug. -->

### Expected behavior

<!-- A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen. -->

### Environment

- PyTorch Version (e.g., 1.0):
- OS (e.g., Linux):
- How you installed PyTorch (`conda`, `pip`, source):
- Build command you used (if compiling from source):
- Python version:
- CUDA/cuDNN version:
- GPU models and configuration:
- Any other relevant information:

### Additional context

<!-- Add any other context about the problem here. -->
